Ibm getting started (#221)
opea-project/docs: getting-started/README.md

# Getting Started with OPEA
This document specifically details the steps for deploying services on IBM Cloud, providing a tailored guide to help you leverage IBM's cloud infrastructure to deploy the ChatQnA application from OPEA GenAI Examples. For additional deployment targets, see the [ChatQnA Sample Guide](https://opea-project.github.io/latest/examples/ChatQnA/ChatQnA_Guide.html)

## Understanding OPEA's Core Components

Before moving forward, it's important to familiarize yourself with two key elements of OPEA: GenAIComps and GenAIExamples.

> - GenAIComps is a collection of microservice components that form a service-based toolkit. This includes a variety of services such as llm (language learning models), embedding, and reranking, among others.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- GenAIComps is a collection of microservice components that form a service-based toolkit. This includes a variety of services such as llm (large language models), embedding, and reranking, among others.

```

Reviewer: See for LLM expansion https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Large_language_model

Author: copied this over from the previous GS! changed it

- While GenAIComps offers a range of microservices, GenAIExamples provides practical, deployable solutions to help users implement these services effectively. Examples include ChatQnA and DocSum, which leverage the microservices for specific applications.

## Prerequisites

## Create and Configure a Virtual Server
1.  Navigate to [IBM Cloud](https://cloud.ibm.com). - Click the **Create resource** button at the top right of the screen. Select **Compute** from the options available and select `Virtual Server for VPC`

2. Select a location for the instance. Assign a name to it.

3. Under Stock Images, select Ubuntu 24.04 (`ibm-ubuntu-24-04-6-minimal-amd64-1`)

4. Select a virtual server.
> **Note:** We recommend selecting a 3-series instance with an Intel(R) 4th Gen Xeon(C) Scalable Processor, such as `bx3d-16x80` or above. For more information on virtual servers on IBM cloud visit [Intel® solutions on IBM Cloud®](https://www.ibm.com/cloud/intel).

> 5. Create or add an ssh key for the instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Add an SSH key to the instance, if necessary, create one first.
```

Reviewer: note the capitalization of SSH

> 6. Click on `Create virtual server` at the bottom right.

Reviewer: Do you want to stay agnostics of UI changes, if yes, leave out the "at bottom right"

7. Once the instance is running, create and attach a `Floating IP` to the instance. For more information visit [this](https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/vpc?topic=vpc-fip-working&interface=ui) site

8. `ssh` into the instance using the floating IP (`ssh -i <key> ubuntu@<floating-ip>`)

## Deploy the ChatQnA Solution
Use the command below to install docker on a clean virtual machine
```bash

> wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/opea-project/GenAIExamples/refs/heads/main/ChatQnA/docker_compose/install_docker.sh

Reviewer: This script might move ..
Why not a put a copy click thing on page and reproduce the instructions in the install_docker.sh inline?

Author: @mkbhanda will add a fair few bit of lines - https://raw.githubusercontent.com/opea-project/GenAIExamples/refs/heads/main/ChatQnA/docker_compose/install_docker.sh

Reviewer: Actually no, you have 3 lines here, and downloading docker stuff directly is 1 more line.

chmod +x install_docker.sh
./install_docker.sh
```
Configure Docker to run as a non-root user by following these [instructions](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/linux-postinstall/)

Clone the repo and navigate to ChatQnA

```bash
git clone https://github.com/opea-project/GenAIExamples.git
cd GenAIExamples/ChatQnA
```
Set the required environment variables:
```bash
export host_ip="localhost"
export HUGGINGFACEHUB_API_TOKEN="Your_Huggingface_API_Token"
```

Set up other specific use-case environment variables:
```bash
cd docker_compose/intel/cpu/xeon/
source set_env.sh
```
Now we can start the services
```bash
docker compose up -d
```
It takes a few minutes for the services to start. Check the logs for the services to ensure that ChatQnA is running.

> For example to check the logs for the `tgi-service`:

Reviewer: Check if all the services are up and running. 
> docker ps -a
Expect the following container images:

<img width="1320" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/67ba9639-5513-4452-9a53-8d427cd09dc2">

```bash
docker compose logs tgi-service | grep Connected
```
The output shows `Connected` as shown:
```
tgi-service | 2024-10-18T22:41:18.973042Z INFO text_generation_router::server: router/src/server.rs:2311: Connected
```

### Interact with ChatQnA

You can interact with ChatQnA via a browser interface:
* Under `Infrastructure` in the left pane, go to `Network/Security groups/<Your Security Group>/Rules`
* Select `Create`
* Enable inbound traffic for port 80

> * Open a browser and navigate `http://{external_public_ip}:80` to view the ChatQnA interface.

Reviewer 2: recommend making this more explicit by modifying this step to be: 

* To view the ChatQnA interface, open a browser and navigate to the UI by inserting your externally facing IP address in the following:  `http://{external_public_ip}:80'.

For more information on editing inbound/outbound rules, click [here](https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/vpc?topic=vpc-updating-the-default-security-group&interface=ui)

A snapshot of the interface looks as follows:

![Chat Interface](assets/chat_ui_response.png)

> **Note:** this example leverages the Nike 2023 Annual report for its RAG based content. See the [ChatQnA Sample Guide](https://opea-project.github.io/latest/examples/ChatQnA/ChatQnA_Guide.html)
to learn how you can customize the example with your own content. 

To interact with the ChatQnA application via a `curl` command:

```bash
curl http://${host_ip}:8888/v1/chatqna \
    -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
    -d '{
        "messages": "What is the revenue of Nike in 2023?"
    }'
```
ChatQnA provides the answer to your query as a text stream.

> 

Reviewer: Do add a step to upload content to RAG system

Use the curl command below to upload a file.

curl -X POST "http://${host_ip}:6007/v1/dataprep" \
     -H "Content-Type: multipart/form-data" \
     -F "files=@./nke-10k-2023.pdf"

Author: @mkbhanda Can we add this in the next iteration? I'd have to validate it on IBM cloud

Reviewer: sure
